Document IL2125 and IL3058 transitive reference compatibility warnings (#50266)
dotnet/docs: docs/core/deploying/trimming/trim-warnings/il2125.md

---
title: "IL2125: Referenced assembly is not annotated for trim compatibility"
description: "Learn about trim warning IL2125: Referenced assembly is not annotated for trim compatibility"

> ms.date: 12/02/2024

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ms.date: 12/02/2025
```

ai-usage: ai-assisted
f1_keywords:
  - "IL2125"
---
# IL2125: Referenced assembly is not annotated for trim compatibility

## Cause

A project has `<VerifyReferenceTrimCompatibility>true</VerifyReferenceTrimCompatibility>` set, and one or more referenced assemblies don't have the `IsTrimmable` assembly metadata attribute set to `true`.

## Rule description

> When you enable trim analysis with `<EnableTrimAnalyzer>true</EnableTrimAnalyzer>` or mark your project as trimmable with `<IsTrimmable>true</IsTrimmable>`, you can optionally enable verification that all referenced assemblies are also annotated for trim compatibility. This helps ensure that all dependencies in your project are annotated for trim compatibility.

Reviewer 2: @copilot address this

```xml
<PropertyGroup>
  <EnableTrimAnalyzer>true</EnableTrimAnalyzer>
  <VerifyReferenceTrimCompatibility>true</VerifyReferenceTrimCompatibility>
</PropertyGroup>
```

When this property is enabled, the analyzer checks that all referenced assemblies have been built with `<IsTrimmable>true</IsTrimmable>`, which adds the assembly-level attribute `[assembly: AssemblyMetadata("IsTrimmable", "True")]` to the assembly.

## Example

```csharp
// Assembly reference: MyLibrary.dll (built without <IsTrimmable>true</IsTrimmable>)

public class Program
{
    public static void Main()
    {
        var obj = new MyLibrary.SomeClass();
    }
}
```

```
warning IL2125: Referenced assembly 'MyLibrary' is not built with `<IsTrimmable>true</IsTrimmable>` and may not be compatible with trimming.
```

## How to fix violations

You have several options to fix this warning:

1. **Update the referenced library** to be built with `<IsTrimmable>true</IsTrimmable>`. This is the preferred approach if you control the library source code. See [Prepare .NET libraries for trimming](../prepare-libraries-for-trimming.md) for guidance on making libraries trim-compatible.

> 2. **Disable the verification** by setting `<VerifyReferenceTrimCompatibility>false</VerifyReferenceTrimCompatibility>` in your project file if you're confident that the library works correctly with trimming even without the attribute.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Update the referenced library** to be built with `<IsTrimmable>true</IsTrimmable>`. This is the preferred approach if you control the library source code. For guidance on making libraries trim-compatible, see [Prepare .NET libraries for trimming](../prepare-libraries-for-trimming.md).
- **Disable the verification** by setting `<VerifyReferenceTrimCompatibility>false</VerifyReferenceTrimCompatibility>` in your project file if you're confident that the library works correctly with trimming even without the attribute.
```

---
title: "IL2125: Referenced assembly is not marked as trimmable"
description: "Learn about trim warning IL2125: Referenced assembly is not marked as trimmable"
ms.date: 12/02/2024
f1_keywords:
  - "IL2125"
---

> # IL2125: Referenced assembly is not marked as trimmable

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# IL2125: Referenced assembly is not marked as annotated for trim compatibility
```

## Cause

A project has `<VerifyReferenceTrimCompatibility>true</VerifyReferenceTrimCompatibility>` set, and one or more referenced assemblies don't have the `IsTrimmable` assembly metadata attribute set to `true`.

## Rule description

> When you enable trim analysis with `<EnableTrimAnalyzer>true</EnableTrimAnalyzer>` or mark your project as trimmable with `<IsTrimmable>true</IsTrimmable>`, you can optionally enable verification that all referenced assemblies are also marked as trimmable. This helps ensure that all dependencies in your project are compatible with trimming.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you enable trim analysis with `<EnableTrimAnalyzer>true</EnableTrimAnalyzer>` or mark your project as trimmable with `<IsTrimmable>true</IsTrimmable>`, you can optionally enable verification that all referenced assemblies are also marked as trimmable. This helps ensure that all dependencies in your project are annotated for trim compatibility.
```

## Example

```csharp
// Assembly reference: MyLibrary.dll (built without <IsTrimmable>true</IsTrimmable>)

public class Program
{
    public static void Main()
    {
        // IL2125: Referenced assembly 'MyLibrary' is not built with `<IsTrimmable>true</IsTrimmable>`
        // and may not be compatible with trimming.
        var obj = new MyLibrary.SomeClass();
    }
}
```

## How to fix violations

You have several options to fix this warning:

1. **Update the referenced library** to be built with `<IsTrimmable>true</IsTrimmable>`. This is the preferred approach if you control the library source code. See [Prepare .NET libraries for trimming](../prepare-libraries-for-trimming.md) for guidance on making libraries trim-compatible.

2. **Disable the verification** by setting `<VerifyReferenceTrimCompatibility>false</VerifyReferenceTrimCompatibility>` in your project file if you're confident that the library works correctly with trimming even without the attribute.

3. **Suppress the warning** for specific assemblies using `#pragma warning disable IL2125` or the `UnconditionalSuppressMessageAttribute` if you've verified that the specific library is safe to use with trimming.

> ## When to suppress warnings

Reviewer 2: @copilot remove this (since we're not going to suggest suppressing it as an option at all)
